CS130 Project 1 - Design Document
=================================

Please answer all questions in this design document.  Note that the final
feedback section is optional, and you are not required to answer it if you
don't want to.

Unanswered or incompletely answered questions, or answers that don't actually
match the code/repository, will result in deductions.

Answers don't have to be deeply detailed!  We are mainly looking for an
overview or summary description of how your project works, and your team's
experiences working on this project.

Logistics (7 pts)
-----------------

L1.  [2pts] Enumerate all teammates here.
    Anushka Gupta
    Vinny Thai

L2.  [2pts] What did each teammate focus on during this project?
    Anushka focused on the workbook interface, sheets interactions, and cellgraph.
    Vinny focused on the cell evaluation and cellerrors.

L3.  [3pts] Approximately how many hours did each teammate spend on the project?
    Anushka worked 20 hours.
    Vinny worked 15 hours.


Spreadsheet Engine Design (20 pts)
----------------------------------

D1.  [3pts] Describe the high-level design abstractions (e.g. classes and/or
     submodules) in your spreadsheet engine, and what purposes these various
     abstractions fulfill.
    Our spreadsheet engines has a Workbook class, CellGraph class, Cell class,
    CellError class, and CellErrorType class. The Workbook Class handles the user
    interaction with the spreadsheets and cells. It also handles interactions
    between cell references. CellGraph keeps track of the cell dependencies and
    detects if there is cell cycles. Cell evaluates it contents and stores them.
    CellError and CellErrorType are for reporting the different errors within the
    workbook.

D2.  [4pts] Why did you choose the design you chose?  Describe other designs
     (or perhaps earlier versions of the above design) that you considered,
     and why you ended up not using them.
    Originally, we planned to store a spreadsheet class that would store cells in
    the workbook. However, the spreadsheet class ended up with many similar methods
    to workbook, so it was decided to consolidate spreadsheets as a part of workbook.
    Besides this, we were happy with our design choices.

D3.  [4pts] At a high level (e.g. pseudocode or higher), enumerate the steps
     that your spreadsheet engine goes through when a caller sets a cell's
     contents.
    The workbook first checks if the sheet and location are valid. Then, the workbook
    checks whether the cell has ever been used. If not, the cell is made and empty.
    If so, the cell is removed from the cellgraph that keeps track of references.
    Then, cell is told to fill its content.
    In the cell, it sets its content and runs _update_value. This calls an evaluater
    that is matches the beginning of the cell. If the cell is a literal, then it converts
    and sets the value. If the cell is a formula, the cell's content is parsed. The parsing
    adds any references of other cells to cellgraph in workbook to track loops. The parsing
    evaluates the formula and returns the value. This is set to the cell's value.

D4.  [3pts] How does your spreadsheet engine identify what other cells need
     updating when a cell's contents are changed, and what order to update them?
    The engine updates cellgraph whenever a cell's content is edited to remove references
    from and to that cell. The cells whose content referenced that cell is returned in
    and updated without any particular order.

D5.  [3pts] How does your spreadsheet engine identify cycles between cells when
     a cell update is performed?  Are cells in a cycle processed any differently
     from other cells outside of the cycle?
    The engine has a cellgraph class that is a part of every workbook that keeps track
    of cell references. It runs a SCC detection algorithm to find any cycles. This is
    ran every time a reference is found while parsing a formula. If a cycle is found,
    the value is set to a cellerror as well as the other cells in the cycle.

D6.  [3pts] What steps does your spreadsheet engine go through when a sheet is
     deleted from a workbook?  How does it identify cells that may need to be
     recomputed after a sheet-deletion operation?
    When a sheet is deleted, the cells from that sheet are updated with None. By setting
    the contents of each to None, this updates the cells related to them as mentioned in
    D4.

Implementation Process (23 pts)
-------------------------------

P1.  [4pts] How did your team break down and keep track of the various tasks to
     complete for this project?  Did you use the GitHub issue tracker, or some
     other system like Trello, or some other tool?
    We used physical and digital notes to keep track of our individual tasks that
    we agreed upon during our meetings. We used Discord to tell each other when and
    what features or bugs we have fixed.

P2.  [4pts] How did you assign tasks to teammates?  Did you stick with your
     task-assignments through the project, or did you shift around tasks as the
     project progressed?  Why?
    At the beginning, we met to discuss how we would assign tasks. Our tasks changed
    as the project progressed. Vinny was slower to complete some parts of his tasks,
    and Anushka needed them to implement her code so those parts were done by Anushka.

P3.  [4pts] How would you characterize the quality of your project testing?
     Make sure to touch on these items:  Is it automated?  Is it easy for
     teammates to run?  Is it fast?  Is it reasonably complete?
    We have started to use unittest but have not implemented a unittest discovery.
    We are still learning about unittest and how to automate this.

P4.  [3pts] What mechanisms did your team use for communication during the
     project?  Did you find them to be effective?  What issues did you
     encounter, if any?
    We used to Discord for communication and meeting calls to keep up with each other.
    We did not have any issues since most of our discussions were over call.

P5.  [3pts] Did you use any kind of collaborative construction techniques, e.g.
     code reviews or pair-programming, during the project?  If so, what are your
     observations about its usefulness?  Did you find it to have any downsides?
    We used pair-programming to code the integration between our codes. The
    pair-programming was useful because we could ask each other about their
    implementations and specifics. This helped identify many of our errors.

P6.  [5pts] What would you like to improve about your team's development
     process, going forward?
    We would like to have more instances of pair-programming to help eliminate
    bugs. We would also like to have more communication early on to discuss
    task and designs.

Section F:  CS130 Project 1 Feedback [OPTIONAL]
-----------------------------------------------

These questions are OPTIONAL, and you do not need to answer them.  Your grade
will not be affected by answering or not answering them.  Also, your grade will
not be affected by negative feedback - we want to know what went poorly so that
we can improve future versions of the course.

F1.  What parts of the assignment did you find highly enjoyable?  Conversely,
     what parts of the assignment did you find unenjoyable?


F2.  What parts of the assignment helped you learn more about software
     engineering best-practices, or other useful development skills?
     What parts were not helpful in learning these skills?


F3.  Were there any parts of the assignment that seemed _unnecessarily_ tedious?
     (Some parts of software development are always tedious, of course.)


F4.  Do you have any feedback and/or constructive criticism about how this
     project can be made better in future iterations of CS130?
